Amilia my daughter must have logged in
I'll figure out how to change it some
point Sorry I could resist okay thank
you everybody uh for joining
tonight um this is the uh May 22nd uh
Board of Finance regular meeting we'll
go ahead and call the meeting to order
and recite the Pledge of Allegiance
pledge allegiance to the flag of the
United States of America to the Republic
for which it stands nation under God
indivisible Liberty and and justice for
all okay thank you uh we'll move on to
the uh first item on the agenda after
opening which is the public speak Eric
do you want to go around and
check looks like we have celest is and
Linda sure first up on my screen is
Linda fish all
set okay uh item number two Celeste
Willard I'm all said thank
you okay uh phone number ending in
2020 that's
Louise that's me okay Sor then that is
everybody I have on my screen okay we'll
go ahead and go on to item three which
is changes to additions to the agenda
does anybody have any changes or
additions to the agenda to propose
Mark I do um I knew we were going to
discuss the letter that Celeste had sent
to us
um right requesting the change um of how
they wanted to um I believe I don't
sorry expenditure policy the well I know
we're talking about that but I mean
there was also the letter that she sent
right before the town meeting
um asking and I'm sorry I meant to print
it out but asking how they wanted the
money to be at um more towards I think
you know the the more pressing item now
than um than the parking lot and I see
Celeste is nodding an agreement we
probably should have had that on the
agenda but can we add that somewhere
um I'm not sure if we did we have to
take action on it or are we just just I
knew she submitted it to us she's here
tonight I knew we just wanted to kind of
talk about
it I'm sorry my head sideways because
the letter is scanned sideways and I've
open up on my email and I don't have an
easy way
to right click you should be able to
rotate it but so well this is this is
within the this is within the Outlook
thing so
it's Miss clar it's it's the request to
put their their leftover 103k into the
capital account that's correct thank you
thanks Joan you're
welcome just so that we acknowledge it
tonight wherever we want to put it at
the beginning maybe or something
but still trying to figure out the
uh I'm actually pretty good at adob AC
right Rob I didn't know that right click
shortcuts that's good um so I think Joan
what you would want to do then is make a
motion to add to the agenda the request
from the board of uh Ed to move uh the
Surplus into the uh Capital
fund sure we I guess we did yeah I guess
we didn't discuss this at the last
meeting go no I think we I think it
arrived yeah after same day or after
yeah that's right I apologize repeat the
beginning of am I I'm just adding so I
think what we would need is a motion to
add to the agenda right uh the request
from the Board of Education to move the
Surplus into the uh AES Capital
fund all right can we act on what you
I'll make a motion to act to add to the
agenda do I have to pick where I'm
adding it under it would be under new
business so it would be 5B okay under 5B
the letter from the Board of Education
um acting on the um ability to move the
surplus funds into the AES Capital fund
okay do we have a second on that motion
I'll second that thank you rob
anybody uh we have any
discussion did everyone receive that
email I think we all did yes I found it
right
away
okay so if there's no discussion we'll
call for a vote all those in favor say I
I I I
hi okay all those
opposed any
extensions no okay we'll go ahead and
add that to the agenda as item 5B okay
any other additions or changes to the
agenda Eric Mark I have one I would like
to request the board of Finance consider
an additional appropriation in the
amount of 2
uh for the fiscal year ending June 30
2024 and the account that would be
funded would be
4214 Community Center
318-0155
220 electricity and when we get to that
I'll explain why we're doing it that way
and what we're uh
accomplishing so what I would suggest is
that we have a motion potentially to add
an agenda item under 5C which is new
business which to discuss
the account for
electricity for which which what are
what sub area is it the community center
4214 Community Center
okay um away with saying I say I so move
so all that anybody want to second that
I'll second it I'll second it I heard
bill first thank you very much any
discussion
all those in favor say I I any opposed
any extensions okay thank you very much
we'll add that to the agenda as item
five C okay and we'll get to the details
then any other changes or additions to
the
agenda okay hearing them we'll move on
to Old business so the first item is the
review of the policy for the AES capital
expenditure
um I sent earlier to you today and I
apologize for not sending it earlier Rob
had sent it to me Monday uh but this is
the uh uh draft of a proposed policy
that came out of the Board of Education
um I have not had a lot of time to
review it um and I'm sure that you
haven't had a lot of time to review it
many of you also um so uh we can
certainly discuss it at this point um I
think that the first section of that
policy and I don't have it in front of
me right now I do but it's without
referring to it it's probably mot
because huh would you like me to share
it I have it up too it doesn't matter um
you can I mean you certainly can I can
too yeah the first part of it does lead
off with what we're going to discuss
later which is the moving of the 103k
yeah um well section B so Section 1 a is
moved because that was already passed
through the bo through the through the
agenda or through the through the budget
uh well there is a second piece to it it
it talks because it says thereafter so
you could redraft it but it it accounts
for not just the the original 100,000
and thereafter may choose to so we
already know we can do that we already
know we can do that that's the power
invested in the yeah I know I know it's
really a formality yeah keep it simple
it's simple as we can so I you know I
honestly you know the first my first
thought reviewing this is that a section
A can be removed and it's entirely
assuming we approve the uh the second
part of that which is section B tonight
which is the removal or the transfer of
the uh excess funds to the uh um yes
capital F if we do that then this whole
section can
go right uh more or less I mean I I mean
I still think we want to have some
sentence in there about how the the
Board of Ed can choose to deposit money
in future um but you know into this
specific fund but again it can be it
could be substantially redrafted you're
right it just simplifies and I think the
simpler the better you we all know that
they can request that at any point right
so I yeah and I think they just wanted
to formalize it but that's yeah yeah
it's not a bad idea actually thinking
about probably the other thing you guys
might Noti you know is the change of
name I think this came out of the Board
of Ed discussions and I think the
concern as I understand it was that um
they feel respon they're responsible for
the building and the grounds and they
feel like naming a 35 School Road makes
it clear that uh the fund is for the
building and the grounds not you know
not just maybe the school building
itself so that's the reason for the name
change
Rob that thank you for addressing that
that just stuck right out at me and
I I I was puzzled too but Shannon
explained it and I was like okay that
makes a certain amount of sense so we we
won't refer to it as the AES Capital
it's just easier the AES Capital rather
than I agree with you and there's
another way to do this obviously I mean
I took Shannon's draft and stuck it in
front of you guys because you know it's
not like I sat down and redrafted this
thing she spent a lot of time on it and
I then I was having massive car trouble
late last week week so I was all up in
that and didn't really have the time to
sit down and say here let me Redline
this uh and change it the other way you
could do it is still call it the ASAS
Capital fund and just Define ASAS
Capital Fund in a way that makes it very
very clear that it applies to building
grounds Etc everything you can do I I
just think it looks cleaner it looks
better it lets everyone know what it you
know but I appreciate all the time and
effort both of you have put into it so
I'm not criticizing I just think it's
easier for the community at large to
understand too how we're trying to
transition in for them to have this and
I would always support it you know
including the grounds too you know the
whole but that's yeah I think that's the
intent I it was just a question of
clarity yeah thank you no and I agree I
agree with Joanne just the fact that
some people be like 35 School Road what
is that because people are used to
hearing AES yeah so exactly
really trying to push the you know the
togetherness and and it's it's just
feedback we can give to Shannon or you
can provide to Shannon on why we
felt yeah thank you yeah yeah so I'm
sorry what what are what are people
suggesting there I they to to name it as
they like to name the as capital fund
rather than 35 School Road what I was
saying is in order to address the board
of Ed's concern the other way to do it
is you you call it the as capital fund
and then you drop a
definition and you you have that
definition ASAS Capital fund
means blah blah blah blah blah and and
in that you make it very very clear that
it applies to building grounds you know
everything that the Boe is responsible
for upkeep of yeah I I would suggest
that that would make sense for you know
Shannon's an attorney right so she's
wants to make sure that the details are
are there so first of all this is not a
binding agreement you know this is a an
agreement that is you know just a policy
and principle that you know any of the
three boards could in theory you know um
decide not to follow at any given time
um but that being said I do think that
it makes sense to um be be clear in our
language now one of the things if you
look at the plot
lines I'm not sure that it is it is wise
for us to restrict us so much to the 35
School Road uh survey
lines um because I may be wrong but just
looking at it in the quick look that I
took it looked like it may
actually some of the playing fields and
some of the other areas out back behind
the school may actually not be part of
the 35 School Road
property so I'd be a little concerned
about limiting that fact because I think
then that potentially limits the board
of vet about the things that they would
do I I doubt that it's going to make
that much difference but I think that we
would be better served by a little
broader um definition of what 35 School
Road actually or the AES Capital fund is
and by defining it as you know Capital
Improvements to the AES to the AES
properties including 35 School Road
would probably be better served for both
the scho the school district and the
town so that would kind of be my thought
and and I'm going to suggest we don't
necessarily vote on this whole thing
today we could um but that would be one
my one proposed
um I don't think we want to box
ourselves into a corner by limiting it
to 835 School Road than having somebody
challenge it in the future I I hear what
you're saying and no I mean I I wasn't
thinking we'd vote on this tonight
because I don't think a lot of people
had enough time uh to look at it and
think through everything that they could
come up with that they might have an
issue with there's also there's very
much an idore choice at the end of this
thing uh because shann and I were
debating back and forth she came up with
this idea of this kind of advisory
committee that would administer this
fund and if it was two from each of the
main boards you know Board of Finance
Board of Ed Board of Selectmen this
obviously sets up a tie scenario so we
had a difference of opinion not a strong
one necessarily on how to break a tie uh
my preference was to go to a seven
member committee by grabbing somebody
from CIP that wasn't an overlap uh she
came up with a different mechanism so
everybody should kind of look at that at
the end of this and chew on it and think
what think if if you have a brilliant
idea that we didn't think of by all
means um and then you know other than
that just come up with what you might
prefer what you think would work more
smoothly um you
know just so that we don't end up in
three three ties and then I mean what
good does that do
anything y Mark just one point to what
you've already said the elementary
school's entire septic system is not on
30 on the property that's designated
Wheeling that's That's a classic example
that's kind of what I was concerned
about and I didn't know exactly where
the aseptic system was but I knew there
was an issue because it kind of comes to
this you know there's an angle
associated with that okay good to
know so something to consider good you
know and I think we should we'll
definitely want to get that in the
definition well I think we have to
broaden the definition definitely
definitely because
I think we all have the same intent but
you know we just don't want to I think
you're absolutely right we don't want to
accidentally draw a boundary around this
thing that that somebody else play hard
ball with the definitions yeah for no
good
reason right right
okay do we have other comments on the uh
proposed policy
it just doesn't seem that logical to
create another board when you already
have
CIP whose mission it is to do
that um I think I had that I had I had
the same concern about setting up
another a whole another group people me
too I did I did okay and I was one over
by the idea and maybe in future it won't
be necessary but I came around to the
idea
based on kind of a trust building
um you know a feeling of like okay we
want to get from where we are to where
we want to go and maybe this is the
mechanism to do it even if it's not the
most efficient
possible so that's I isn't a board it's
a committee right a committee it's not a
board right just a bunch of group of
people getting together it's people it
would all be populated by people who are
already on boards but and you know that'
be extra time for people and I get it
and I I was initially
but I think it might be worth doing at
least at
first so that that's my take but I I
completely understand the
concern yeah again not to Echo that's
exactly my thought I was just thinking
the time element involved too um
sometimes these projects you know might
be emergency well obviously they'll get
together quickly if it's an emergency I
just wondered if this was going to slow
everything down um
you know and creating another layer of
two two and two and that that that's my
initial thought I'm not I'm GNA take
time to digest it I just was hoping that
with all the meetings we've had and the
coming together and the trying to pacify
everyone that we you know and creating
the account in the first place yep is
enough of a olive branch to just put out
there that everybody would make
reasonable decisions but I'll sit back
and and listen to you know other
feedback it just sort of makes a whole
another layer
and yeah I mean I think I think what we
we should all do is mold this some more
I asked you know Shannon can be
available maybe I can ask she be
available for our next meeting we can
all come back to this issue after having
chewed on it for a bit yeah you know
everybody kind of their ideas out I'm
actually in the meeting oh you did show
up look at you okay I did I just stepped
out of the charter revision commission
sorry I'll mute myself
again well we we're talking about our
initial thoughts we you know nothing no
no big deal things have been decided
we're just kind of kicking this
around great I heard Jan's comment and I
yep okay let's continue Board of board
of Finance members other comments
questions or thoughts my hand
up go ahead Bill okay thank you
um I guess my one concern in part C is
it starts to clearly Define what a major
or a capital expenditure is and then it
says the last sentence though that the
Boe will make up what is and what isn't
and I I just think it should be
defined what is a capital project okay
and it should be defined and it should
be adhered to it shouldn't be like well
this time we're to call it a capital
expenditure but next time we're not
maybe the next time we will but the next
time we won't we're going to make mind
it just seems like we should have a
definition of what a capital project is
in there and it should be adhered to and
agree to yeah yeah I mean in i i in
principle I would agree with you 100
per. the problem seems to be that there
in terms of Municipal spending there
does not seem to
be the same concept of what a capital
expenditure might be as opposed to what
you and I might have WR run into in the
private sector um you know is is the
repairs to the you know septic system or
to the Sewer lines or to the
um uh seats in the auditorium are those
a capital expenditure you know
in as anybody who's dealt with this in
the private sector will know it's often
as much of an art as a science it's a
judgment call on their part of the
finance department
um they do their best to apply the
generally agreed upon accounting
principles which I know there are set of
those for the uh municipalities and
governments Etc I'm not familiar with
them I'm not an accountant especially
with the municipalities but I I think
that there is a it seems to be a lot
looser you know uh so I mean any of the
three projects that I mentioned I would
think would be things that we would need
to fund out of this type of Capital
Improvement or Capital uh account but
they wouldn't necessarily pass what I
would consider for a private Enterprise
that you know a capital Improvement they
might they might not it kind of depends
on on the on the uh sure I I see where I
could speak to this some more you know
Shannon and I went round around on this
because there's there's always fuzziness
around the edges of the of these
definitions and she she and I think the
Board of Ed in their discussions came up
with some thoughts about hey wait a
minute you know let's say we we want to
do X is that going to suddenly be a
capital expense where whereas we don't
really see it that way you know uh I
think the example that uh we talked
about at one point was what if we wanted
to buy the kids a bunch of computers is
that a capital expenditure um you know
or is that something that we would
normally have funded out of our Ops
budget so and all of a sudden now we're
in into this so in the end she came
around to the idea of Crea this
committee and then letting the committee
call it as they see it uh rather than or
or how she drafted it here rather than
trying to to really put it in a box I
preferred initially came into this like
okay we got to Define it and I still
would I think in a perfect world I'd
like a definition but every time I sat
down to try and write one and especially
you know pouring over Connecticut state
statutes as to what Boards of Ed are
empowered to do and what their
responsibilities are I had real trouble
coming up with a good
definition yeah problematic and I yeah I
think again that we would
be
generally and this applies to the entire
town government budget too we should be
very careful about boxing ourselves into
too much of a corner now I know this is
a policy it's not the charter something
we have to legally follow necessarily
but I think we should use it as our
guiding principle um so I think it's
important that we get it right and think
that's right the computer is actually a
really really good example Rob because
you know historically private companies
would capitalize things like personal
computers and laptops because they cost
a lot of money and they had a three to
five year uh lifespan if not longer now
they don't cost so much right so
companies actually lease them they
expense them you know we do that all the
time so things change it's a tough call
um but I think we and we would I think
we need to be
we need to probably
reserve the ability of the board of AD
and the board of finance and the board
of Selectmen to agree that hey buying
computers for the kids or for a
classroom or specific thing or or
repairing the Subic system is a capital
expense you know paying the school nurse
is not that's an expense it's an ongoing
expense it clearly is an ongoing thing
so we probably need to give them the
attitude you know this can always be
turned down right
so Bill your hand still up is it oh no
sorry okay I'm good thank you I'm
touching the wrong screen I'm looking at
two screens trying to close the wrong
one Mark I think actually the the town's
definition of what capital should be
should be less than that because it's
clear that the Board of Ed if it's
related to operations of the school I
would say computers would be an
operation you know it may be a capital
item because it's over a threshold but
that is not something either CIP or any
tribe board should be weighing in on why
do you think that be because it's clear
that the the town is the owner of the
building the structure in the ground so
you're talking
about terms of a length of service then
potentially right right well in but but
we're not that that would be the
personal property of the school not the
that's not a building or it's not a
ground so I don't think the town has any
or should have any oversight over that
whatsoever um either Board of Finance or
a tribe that's a school boards where the
town has a dog in the fight is building
and grounds um and made projects that
affect either of those only everything
else is the school board's discretion
Eric I don't want well this wouldn't
prevent the school board from ordering
laptops if they have it in their budget
to purchase for the for the for the kids
but it would what if they did not have
that in their budget and they needed to
replace that you know would they wanted
to tap the capital fund then you
know needs to be in there I just want to
make a comment that I feel like we're
open
sorry I just been waiting a couple
minutes to get my thought and Eric kind
of said it I can't agree with him more I
feel like then we're opening the whole
AES budget process
to just changing which isn't a bad thing
but we definitely did this to make sure
that we could fund or start a fund for
like Eric said the buildings the grounds
the big
projects I feel and I hope I'm not
making a decision tonight that we
definitely can Define
it in some way um I understand in the
business world and and out there there's
different things that can be added but I
felt like this was building structure
things you know they've somehow found a
way to plan nicely for all of those
other kinds of things that are in the
operational you know budget every year
and computers have been there they've
brought in you know from way back when I
moved moved here they had brought out
their plan they've done that nicely
they've replaced them they have all of
that that scares me if we I really don't
want to go in that direction I'm 100%
Eric with this thought right and that
that was exactly what Shannon was
getting at when she was saying if we
Define it in kind of a clunky way then
you somehow in that somehow gets
included when it shouldn't be you know
that's that's instructional right that's
that's for the for the kids that's the
that's absolutely the board of EDS call
not we shouldn't be monking around with
that so that was the I that was why she
she ultimately pulled a definition out
of here um if we can come up with one
that doesn't cause these kinds of
problems great uh but I I kind of see
her point in that no matter how we
Define it it at least when I was trying
to draft you know there were these
potential issues that arise and so it
may be more that we need to have
discretion available within the policy
that's all
and Marx made it clear too that it is a
policy and if there is going to be a
subcommittee or a committee it doesn't
mean people can't bring an idea forward
we just probably should have a clear
idea of what we think should go
forward um yeah and and I remember being
at a meeting too where Ann CR had made a
point that before they had this policy
somehow they had to save money or you
know they used to take care of a few
Capital things out of the operational
maybe what was left over or because you
know the business manager had done a
good job getting discounts so this is
freeing for that you know they can now
use the whole operational instructional
for those kind of things it's just my
thought um and then clearly have a
different kind of idea in mind for the
capital
projects in capital account that's the
way I see it I wouldn't want to see
computers in there at all other uh other
comments so one of the concerns I would
have with this is if you do a literal
reading of
this it says the Board of Ed may choose
to deposit money into the
account and I don't think that's really
technically correct I mean per the chart
they can ask the board of Finance yeah
they may request transfer so so that
third line probably ought to be May the
Board of Ed May request transfer of
unspent money from the Board of
Education she at the term
request
right address what you're concerned
about Eric you finish er sorry
y um I don't know oh sorry go ahead
Kimberly I don't want to dominate this
go ahead I I think for me I looked at
this as a revised draft um but there was
another draft of this correct that
happened before this this is a revision
yeah this is this is a complete rewrite
okay so I personally need to take a look
at that
first copy and then I'm going to want to
sit and look back at some of the
meetings that were held on how this all
originated so I can get a feel for for
the changes and you know what the
purpose of this
is so I right now I can't make a
decision about any of this I'm gonna
want to do some research and maybe think
about this in
June yeah I think it's not urgent and I
would agree that just in general we all
have time to think about it a little bit
yeah I don't know if you're going to
glean that much Insight from going back
and and looking at it because the the
original draft the original policy was
very very different in
orientation lot more detailed frankly uh
but you know we had a lot of the same
concerns how do you how do
you is there find a Capital project who
gets to approve it you know who who
controls the money kind of that so is
there a way to have taken the first
policy and put this into track changes
so you can actually compare I think it's
complete reite they're not
this ised this complete rewrite however
Kimberly I I mean I if you want me to
dig up the last draft I had before this
and email it to you I could do that um
but it's it's wildly different this
really kind of conceptually is a
different policy at this point um okay
you know than the original draft uh
we've been kicking this around a
while right so the other thing I would
mention by the way these of the um
section 1B uh and I don't I I may be
garbling this and I I'll defer uh to
others to explain it better but
um you know how that the the board ofet
has that 2% non-aps account and they can
put money in there but you know at our
they come and they can request it from
us apparently the state legislature just
passed a new Omnibus education bill that
comes down over top of that and says
that it's entirely their
call what to do with the Surplus what's
entirely in whose call the Board of Ed
in know in the past if they had money
left over right oh right right right
right right they have to come to us and
ask for permission or or they'd have to
return it to the town um apparently the
new Ed Bill changes that um and so
that's something to consider when we
look when we think about
1B I think these are two different funds
we're not talking about is
trueing account yeah yeah that's a good
point yeah that's true yeah and in fact
the
school you could take
money with the AES school board's
permission because they control that
fund if their school board decided to
spend that money on a capital project
per auditor that would be legal as long
as it's a school related Capital project
so my assumption is given if the
governor does sign that in law then more
than likely in the future the school is
going to max out their 2% non-aps
account every year because why wouldn't
they um that gives them the most
flexibility and then the question
becomes what happens with any additional
money that the school board wants to
deposit into the straight Capital
account which they don't
control
gotcha other questions or
comments All right so I would suggest
that we spend some time reviewing this
thinking about it take it up at our next
meeting and uh pursue it then
agreed okay move on to item 5B which is
the uh review of budget
actual are you g to share your screen
Mark or no I don't have anything in
there I have we have to check register
um I know Eric if you want to you want
me to share my screen the budget
actual you know um it's almost you we're
not going to sit here and go through it
line by line I guess the question would
be does anybody have any concerns over
the uh package that
submitted
no Eric uh looking at property tax
revenue we're about 235k short do we
feel pretty comfortable on
that yeah actually I think this has been
a fairly good collections
month um so I think we're going to be
okay
overall um we should have gotten the
quarters taxes most of the receipts by
now right yeah we're not we're not going
to hit the rest of them by the end of
the you know well maybe thought of them
but no I think we're okay
um but we will
see
okay any areas of concern from Eric I
don't see anything else personally but
no I I spent last week I spent you know
three or four hours with Cheryl going
over the budget line by line um I think
we're well uh under
overall um obviously there's a whole
bunch of line items that are over um and
I think Cheryl should be prepared to
discuss that with you at the next uh
board um
meeting that will be our last meeting in
this fiscal year so we need to be
prepared to do the transfers that are
required to manage that
right you should do them by the end of
the year if you don't it's not the end
of the world that you do them in July
but yeah because I mean
technically you know per the
auditor you're not going to have every
single bill for every single line item
by July one
anyway um even if you request
them but you might have a good idea at
least if we don't have the transfers
next month then we would have a good
idea I would think Eric right of yeah
okay well it's it's probably true that
it really doesn't have much impact on
the closing of the accounts or anything
right
so that's correct that's really probably
something Cheryl should address in the
next meeting let us know what she needs
us to do to make sure she can close
efficiently and
effectively
correct other questions on budget
actual okay take a look at it when you
get a chance and we can always re uh
refer to at the next meeting uh check
register is also there any questions on
comments on the check register
I guess just one quick question um Eric
how many time I should remember this
I've asked it before but how many times
a year does the murf payment get
made um that could be a cherl question
too I just that's a sheral question yeah
do I every
month guess it's every month
monthly um that's what I was thinking
it's I know it's not
bi-weekly um it's not with every paid
period but I think it's it's
monthly okay thank
you other
questions okay oh
um hearing none we will uh go ahead and
move on to the next agenda item which is
the new business uh new business item 5A
is to set the mill
rate so do we have in front of us um if
I can ask sorry Mark that last you know
from the budget meeting that one page
that shows the mill rate and the
calculations and all of that Eric if you
want to let me share my screen I'll pop
it up there or if you have it up there
uh I can do either
so now what's that I said you should be
able to share your screen now if you
don't want to I
can loading there it is okay
all right you should be seeing
this right are you seeing it yes yes
y so this was the uh spreadsheet that we
shared at the town meeting nothing
changed in that
interim um so with calcul ated mill rate
was was 31 3 31.4659
31.4659
six for the year
2425 okay and I heard Rob second any
discussion thankfully I'm hearing none
take a vote all those in favor say
I I any
opposed any abstentions
just on a personal note thank you to the
board of finance and everyone else who
did the hard work to get this through
but fortunately it was not very
controversial this year and we uh got it
through when the town seemed to agree
okay look like motion
passes can you do me a favor yeah and
can you send me your copy of that
document document I have with the same
date has it as I have it as 31
48 so we seem to be off about $4,000
between your copy and my copy but since
you guys approved your copy we'll go
with that and I'll just delete
mine okay wait are we sure wait which
one's right I'm gonna I'm gonna Rie I'm
gonna review the
presentation
yeah I mean I remember it being the one
you put up Mark but you know just a
couple weeks ago
my computer's getting
slow it's time for a new one and an
email from Microsoft your computer is
not for Windows it's it's always got a
lag when you're in the middle of trying
to show somebody something of course
it's actually pretty good but it's
uh could
be thing is this thing is like nine
years old and it's served me very well
it's another Capital expense for your
company
Mark I don't think my company's going to
be pay paying for this one though oh
they this is not this is my personal
computer are you guys seeing the uh
seeing the
file no no go there it
is yep that's from the PowerPoint
yeah okay that's the one that was
approved so I'll send it to you I wanted
to verify it against the PowerPoint but
we just ended up doing it so I will send
that you as soon as the meeting's
over yeah and we only differ by 4,000 so
I don't really care either way uh must
be a rounding
error rounding differential I won't call
it an error because rounding
happens okay uh now we have item 5B this
is to address the uh email from Celeste
about the request to move transfer the
103,000 into the actually I should say
request of the Board of Education to
transfer the 103,000 into the um non-aps
account actually wait not noning account
no into the capital fund yes Capital oh
I'm sorry capital F yeah thank you I was
trying to pull this up I'm just going to
go ahead and share this since I have the
um while you're doing that I I mean I
can make the motion so we have it on the
table are you guys seeing the letter
from all right so this is the letter we
all received from the Board of Ed
requesting the allocation of the Surplus
$13,000 to the OV Elementary School
Capital fund which we established uh
earlier uh in this case they happen to
call out specifically for their concerns
about uh upgrading them or I shouldn't
say upgrad Plumbing actually repairing
the plumbing at the
school um does anybody have any uh
discussion or do you want to make a
motion I think Rob's gonna make a motion
yeah I'm gonna I'm gonna move that we
approve this request and move the
103,000 into the newly established
Capital fund as per the board of EDS
request you have a second I'll second it
he Bill any further discussion
hi hi hi hi any
opposed any
abstentions okay the motion passes thank
you very
much thank you everyone appreciate it
thank you
Celeste coming thanks thank you very
much have a great evening everyone and
happy um happy Memorial Day weekend
thank you You
by
foret okay and now we will move on to
item five C which
is help me out here folks we added it I
think air was it Eric oh yeah yeah the
electrical expenditures sorry go ahead
Eric you want to discuss or tell us what
this is all about sure so last year when
we set the budget for the current fiscal
year we didn't have a community center
and we didn't need to pay electricity
for the community center but we've had
the meter on the building now for about
a month and a half or two months um and
uh so now we are paying and because it's
an electrically heated and cooled
building um there will be some
expenditures this spring for uh
electrical usage um as well as for all
the contractors that are in there for uh
so the first thing would be a uh motion
to create the account
4214 community center line item 3-8
318-6059
um so basically you have to create the
fund but you can't just transfer money
in like you would at the end of the year
because that fund doesn't actually exist
yet so you have to create that line item
in the budget um in this year's budget
and because it's not in the approved
budget you have to do that as an
additional
appropriation per the treasurer so that
would be the request Eric so two things
first of all you said fun but I think
you mean just the account number right
right
okay and can you read the account number
again I mean we have
uh I'm looking at the budget wonder if I
want to make sure it lines up sure it
should be
4214 yeah
56220 correct okay that lines up with
the 2024 2025 fiscal budget so good
we're good there so what I would it
sounds like what we need to do is create
the account in the budget
and it's are we actually going to do a
quote appropriation or are we going to
just do a transfer right to cover yeah
so Cheryl seems to think that should be
done with an
appropriation not a transfer and
remember up to about
$25,000 a year you're free to make or
actually even a little bit more than
that until you break the it's either
0.25% or 05% the budget you can do
Appropriations without any other you
know on your own
authority so or you could wait until
next week or next month and ask Cheryl
why she thinks it should be an
appropriation and not uh a
transfer Rob I have a potentially dumb
question but it uh where is the
appropriation coming from right it's
just a supplemental
appropriation it basically would come
from the Taxation and any excess or
general fund right so okay that how
that's how we would f
it okay question are we adding to the
budget then we can't just this year I
dumb question from me too Rob I I want
to understand it it for $2,000 it seems
like I wish we could just do a transfer
because Eric had already said we're
going to be well under with the expenses
this year so we can't just have
additional we know we're going to SP it
out in the future and it's going to be
the community center when we have all of
those line items active and you know the
building opens to me it's not running
as is there something some reason we
can't just include it in the town halls
electric you know bill for now I
personally would be in favor of creating
the account and recording the
expenditures in there because sooner we
do the sooner we get a history of kind
of what it is every month in June what
it is every month in May what it is
every month in August so we so we
clearly understand kind of what the
operating expenses the community center
are but to do an additional
appropriation I'm not sure that really
you know that I'm not comfortable with
that personally at this point unless we
have good
reason we have to fund it there's no
question oh yeah I mean I just if we
can't do it with a transfer i' like to
understand why right might as well get
educated now this is perfect opportunity
no Eric you were saying this was
Cheryl's thought that we should do an
appropriation yes I mean to be honest
Cheryl would
prefer Appropriations for everything
that's over so that the budget lines up
with what the actual expenses are at the
end of the year and then let everything
that's unexpended just flow into fund
balance um you know as opposed to doing
transfers for everything um but you know
we've gone back and forth about it
historically we've already always done
them as
transfers um you know but she felt
because this was something that wasn't
created you know already you know it has
to be a supplemental appropriation
because it's a line item that doesn't
exist I I hear you I guess I don't see
why we couldn't create it then it exists
transfers something get but I tell tell
you what I don't think there's any
disagreement that we have to create the
the line item so why don't we do
that uh I don't remember all the numbers
but I'm happy to make the motion yeah I
mean I move that we create the Lineum in
the budget for the electrical for the
the uh Community Center as per Eric's
request so that was the account number
4214 318
60156 220 Electric
any seconds I'll second it okay Kimberly
thank you any
discussion okay all those in favor say I
I any opposed I'm gonna just abstain I I
think it should have we should have
expected that there was going to be some
El yeah I'm I'm just whatever I'm
abstaining thank you okay so Joan
abstains no
opposed okay the motion passes okay so
now the question comes before us do we
want to make an appropriation so if we
don't want to make appropriation that's
fine we just do not make a motion can I
can I be very stupid here bill go ahead
I just wonder I'm sorry to be so dumb
but can somebody Define appropriation
versus well it basically means the board
of Finance for the charter has a
certain uh authority to appropriate
additional monies as needed for the town
business as Eric set up until a certain
percentage is fairly small oh I see so
it just gives us a little bit of
flexibility if we're tight on the on the
budgetary spending through the end of
the year if some you know un unforeseen
circumstance comes up that we can't
delay then we would you know we could in
theory just appropriate that money and
it just you know would come out of the
whatever revenues we have with tax or
the general
fund okay but again if we're already
under it just seems like it make more
sense just to as far as we know right so
it's comfortable but as everyone
understands Eric seems just comfortable
just seems to make more sense we just
make a transfer but and I I think it's
an accounting you know it makes sense
that Cheryl's the accounting side it
this may thank you for explaining Eric
Cheryl would like it to line up
accounting wise so of course when you
have an appropriation which it just
opens us up to doing this every year and
having this be my third year for such a
small
amount and we have the money I agree
with you know kind of Bill's thought my
thought of and everybody just let's
transfer it in we'll create the account
if that needs to be um but I feel like
of course the accounting side would want
it to all line up exactly perfect and I
get that whereas to me we're the town
organization and I don't I mean or
whatever we are the authority too I just
don't want to have to face this every I
don't think it's good for the town to
have to face it you know when we are
over and we have the money to transfer I
don't mind appropriating if we were
there's some catastrophe and we have to
spend $20,000 to fix the sewer whatever
you know so my thoughts I think it's
accounting versus Logistics how much
money do we need again Eric two 2000
2,000 bucks and that gets us how
far hopefully the end of the year we
don't do this that's it that's the whole
year great okay and then and then
presumably in the next budget cycle we
just funded it that whatever the level
we did we we had that we had a budget
for this year of $8,000 year for the
annual for the fiscal year was in the
budget so oh this is just that's where
that number comes from it comes from the
accounts that were created for next
year's budget this is just this is last
year's budget because we're not done
with it yet and we've got the meter
running so would we just pull this from
contingency why wouldn't we just pull it
from contingency
yeah so you can see the community center
accounts right there yeah okay we did
budget it okay so we covered it for next
year we just haven't covered it for this
year because we didn't stop gap for the
last couple months right okay right so
that I mean to me that's contingency
but or if we have the money available we
just
transfer but everybody has yeah and so
it sounds like there's not if nobody's
going to make a motion then I would say
that it sounds like we don't don't have
a clear Direction on what to move unless
somebody chooses to make a motion and
you're of course free to do that but it
sounds like maybe the wisest choice is
for the board to wait to hear from
Cheryl next month and then we can make
the decision but don't we owe the money
don't we need to pay the
money look we're gonna pay the bill it's
not a question of that you know
regardless of what you do we're still
gonna pay our electric bill okay want to
make sure
okay um I can see they I want us to
electricity right because we're
dithering over 2,000 bucks and we're to
pull it from I me it just seems silly
okay so if that's not the issue we have
the money that's why I have my thought
yeah I I know you know okay so I think
we'll have more than that yeah so the
real question in and it's more an
accounting question is that instead of
at the end of the year you know there
there's two potential ways to do it it's
to S to look at the budget and say oh we
were short on these following line items
in the budget therefore we were going to
increase the appropriation for that line
item to match what we already expended
that way all those line items are in the
black and then everything else just
flows back to fund balance at the end of
the year so the final budget at the end
of the year shows all expenditures
versus transferring the money from one
line to the other at the end of of the
year that's that's really what you're
talking about so there's pluses and
minuses to both things so I'll I'll say
what I think are the are the you know
the positives to doing the approach that
Cheryl's kind of recommended by adding
an appropriation is that you you're
basically making very clear what budgets
were slightly overspent and what budget
line items are slightly under spent and
you can it help may help you provide it
may provide guidance for next year's
fiscal year budgeting because you have a
good historical record the downside for
me of appropriation is we're adding to
the budget we literally are adding to
the budget and and I think Joan asked
the question or Bill and you know asked
the question what the difference is but
we're actually adding to the
budget and I'm not very comfortable
doing that on a routine
basis you know if it's if it's needed by
by all means I would say yeah you know
what we're tight we going to go to that
I personally like person who likes data
I like to see the history I like the
history to be accurate but for a
practical purposes U from a
philosophical standpoint I don't like
the board of Finance routinely just
adding to the budget to cover something
we didn't for see you know unless it
really is required that's just my
personal take on it and I don't see any
reason we can't wait for a month to uh
to discuss it and talk with Cheryl and
get her perspective because you know
maybe I've got something wrong Maybe all
do it so so I think those are the kind
of the pluses and the minuses Eric said
they get you to the same place
essentially but when you're adding to
the budget that money is going to flow
into the funds you know as opposed to
well I guess it all ends up ultimately
Top Line ends up bottom line ends up
being the same so then Mark every year
you know historically watching the board
of vet operate I'll go to their meetings
they're going to do some transfers and
moving around um you know we're used to
this a lot yeah you know it's it's
you're never going to hit it 100% spot
on so that's the nice part you know
every year we've been able to I have
historically watched the town be able to
Port purchase things because luckily
there has been money left over last year
we were able to get the SUV or and this
year the trailer was bought you know so
there was that's all I agree with you I
don't want to add to the budget at all I
don't think it's necessary if it was a
big catastrophe and we needed you know
an appropriation that's where we come
into play to to do that and or we had to
move a lot of money and that would skew
things from a historical record
perspective you know if it was five
grand or seven Grand I'd say yeah let's
seriously consider it I'm not
comfortable doing it right now
personally yeah we two
grand that's all I agree we'll do it as
old business next
time say that again Rob so we'll revisit
as new BU as old business next time yeah
we just put it on I would say put it as
old business next time if we don't take
action
tonight can't be added as old
Buss further comments or
discussion all right well I mean hearing
no more discussion about this we can
move on to agenda item six which is a
approval of the meeting minutes for
March 27th April 3rd April 10th April
17th and April
24th not sure if all of us were on that
uh of course even if you weren't at the
meetings you could have uh participated
bya or at least reviewed them bya Zoom
to validate the
minutes it's looking it's all there yeah
as
well anybody want to make a motion to
approve the meeting minutes either
individually or as a
whole I'll make the motion to approve
all the minutes okay Louise makes a
motion to approve
them anybody a
second second Kimberly that's not
Kimberly's hand okay any
discussion okay all those in favor say I
I any
opposed and I'm going to abstain because
I was not there on April 17th nor did I
review them so okay motion passes thank
you very much item seven is
administrator's report
Eric okay the report is in my packet
ises any in the packet so I won't go
over everything um relative to the board
of Finance there are a couple Grant
submissions that are in currently I
think I already announced it but we did
get the lsip grant for the route 316
connectivity project that's a $2.85
million award um
[Music]
construction uh so that's good um the
other thing I did submit is I submitted
for a congressional
appropriation through Senators Murphy
and blumenthal's office for about
$410,000 that money would be spent to
complete the community center as well as
install the backup generator for the
municipal
campus um so if we do get that that
Grant um it will be three quarters
funded by the federal government and
we'll have to pick up the last quarter
of it which is is
$105,000 roughly but since we already
have money that has already been
earmarked for finishing the community
center town meeting or anything right
yeah is spend the same amount of money
we've already agreed to spend but also
get the generator completed at the same
time if that comes through um so I'm you
know cautiously optimistic uh for that
um a track work on the town hall is
mostly complete although when I sit in
my office it's still about 85 degrees
because they haven't got the duckus
split for the upstairs working yet which
is unfortunate um but the rest of it's
all working um propane tanks are
installed um the other thing we are
working we did uh meet at the ele school
last week with a uh MEP which is an
engineer that's specializes mechanical
electrical and plumbing
systems um and I'm hoping by the end of
the week back to have a initial proposal
for cost estimate for doing the design
um uh for the uh for the repair work
necessary for the AES Plumbing issues
that we have any idea whether that's
budgetarily in scope of what we've
already got in that Capital
fund I mean is it do you have an idea of
the you know scale of it is it you know
even is it 50,000 200,000
500,000 can't be cheap I'm sure it's
over a 100,000 because basically what
what's gonna have to happen is there's a
long cast iron pipe that runs the length
of the old Wing that has rotted out in
several places so it'll need to be dug
up well that part is run in a Chase so
that is accessible but the laterals
which are the parts that run to the
urinals and the bathrooms themselves
those are in the slab um and the
they you know what they are is pretty
unclear um if we're going to do this so
so the long and the short of it is we're
going to end up jackhammering out part
of the slab in three separate bathrooms
so that's not going to be
inexpensive um you know because this
building has looks like most of it's the
original tile um you might as well
commit to retiling the
bathrooms um one of the bathrooms can be
fairly easily made Ada accessible um two
of them cannot just because of their
layout there's nothing they're not Ada
accessible now and when we get done
renovating them they're still not going
to be Ada accessible without moving
walls and and reconfiguring the adjacent
rooms to them there's not really any way
to make it so the MEP also has an
architect that will be uh helping with
it because wherever we can be Ada
accessible and compliant we should be um
so that's basically the scope of the
project are we required to become ADA
Compliant with the renovation or does
this not meet the standard of that type
level of renovation no we shouldn't be
required to schools have some minimum
requirements for Ada accessibility but
because the other Wings have that every
single bathroom does not need to be Ada
accessible there are minimum ADA
requirements that the building already
meets um if it were a new bathroom it
would have to be Ada accessible but for
renovation no and it makes sense if it
were simple to do we should do it but
it's not simple to do we don't want to
go down that path okay right yes Rob got
a question quick quick question for you
Eric just to clarify make sure I
understand what you're expecting at the
end of the week is the proposal for the
amount of money it'll take to do the
engineering work to to to do the plan
design and Engineering Services to come
up with a plan to do it not to actually
yeah we're not going to know the price
tag for the whole thing we're going to
know what it'll cost us to get the price
we ought to have a budgetary quote out
of it I would think at least yeah we we
can get a real ballpark but we're not
going to really know well until we go to
RFB and actually get bids back on this
okay that's what I wanted to make clear
because you know we're not getting the
full project price here we're getting
what it's going to take us to get
there right we're St still trying to
make sure we know what the actual full
scope of work we have to do is um and as
we went over the project I mean one of
my concerns was that
there's you know I I want them to look
not all we know the the waste the drain
waste end of the plumbing um has severe
problems um they haven't had any
problems on the supply in but I also
want an evaluation of that because you
know at the point where we we're busting
through
concrete um and we're committing to
redoing the flooring you know I don't
want to I want this to be whatever we do
I want this to be one and done and I
don't want to be revisiting this in 10
years and doing something more um I'm
I'm trying to keep scope yeah as
controlled as I possibly can and not get
any more scope creep than is necessary
but I also want to make sure we get our
hands around the whole problem and fix
it now even if we just have a plan like
hey in the next five years you're going
to need to replace some of these Supply
components we can plan for that we can
start funding the the capital fund for
that okay so that is something that that
I've been in discussion with that
engineering firm and it's a discussion
we've had Fairly extensively at
CIP because unlike most of the Town
buildings we don't really have a full
full-blown Capital plan uh for the
buildings um and ultimately we're going
to need somebody to evaluate kind of
that building comprehensively and all
the Building Systems so we can really
understand what our expenses are going
to be going forward so my goal is to get
a contractor or an
engineer assign them this project and if
this works well and we get a good
product out of them to consider starting
to do over the next say five years take
each mechanical systems one year
electrical systems the next and just
review the whole building so we
have kind of the capital Improvement
plan we've been talking about for that
makes a lot of sense how else are we
going to do with a capital Improvement
plan if we don't actually understand the
existing infrastructure yeah it' be good
to have that
yeah but remember that is not cheap and
we're not going to want to do that all
at once right well that's why you have a
plan right the multi-year plan correct
okay hey other questions for Eric or
Eric you have anything else most of the
other stuff looks pretty
straightforward
okay well I guess we can move on then to
item eight which is the liaison
reports CIP was pretty straightforward
uh recently we we the thing we talked
about was a library project which
doesn't take any money from the town
they have it all funded through donation
um but there was extensive discussion
nonetheless Eric can speak to this a lot
more intelligently than I can but
they've got a bathroom they want to redo
a bit and involves a window they want to
close up and there was a bunch
discussion about how best to do that um
Eric raised some I think good concerns
about their initial plan so there was a
a substantial I think revision going to
be made to that plan I don't know Eric
if if in the intervening time there's
been any further developments but that
there was a little window and and the
issue was if you put a file cabinet up
against what used to be a window and
they wanted to just kind of claster over
it or something like that and he there
was some concern about it getting
condensation and creating a mold problem
uh Eric is there anything that's come up
since then on that sure I walked and
talked that with uh Martin of mg
masonary um to look at it you know and
he basically said you know his
preference would be exactly what we
talked about which is Brick it up and
then plaster it on the inside and the
outside so you make that a permanent fix
and and you you just basic essentially
remove the existing window brick in the
opening and then do whatever you want on
the inside uh the library board was
going to go back to golden Hammer which
was the contractor they had picked for
the project and asked them with it
whether that was something they wanted
to tackle or whether they wanted Martin
to handle that um I have not is there an
agress issue what is there a means of
agress issue there in that situation
I that's not an openable window anyway
oh
okay it's like one of these probably not
a living area probably doesn't come into
play right I don't know the code that
well no okay but the other thing that
they're with they're going to be within
budget right like we talked about it at
CIP we gave them we approved some money
and I mean it's their money anyway was
sort of pointless but um they're not
going to go over are they no no they
they should be okay um and the board of
Finance did you know Jeff McGuire s
around a vote of the board of Direction
Board of Selectmen and the board of
Selectmen did agree to give the green
light to that Pro that project so I did
notify them tomorrow they should be
sending me documents to review so okay
we'll go from there but that was the
only thing really I don't think there
was anything that impacts the town
budget that we talked about correct me
if I'm
wrong okay any other leaz on reports I
don't think we have any other direct Le
currently
actually yeah I had a a meeting last
night with with the Norton commission
and we were thinking about trying to
make a more of a presence in town
because a lot of people don't are not
aware of the Norton commission and what
and how effective they are so we were
thinking possibly of doing something at
when and if there will be a
dedication at this uh the new senior
community center and I just kind of
curious uh Eric if you happen to know if
anything's planned or a dedication well
we kind of did that already with was or
was that groundbreaking I'm thinking of
Eric a ground yeah that was a ground we
did a groundbreaking I made a suggestion
to the board that they
consider around
uh basically the week after the 4th of
July for a dedication for the building
um but they did not pass anything or
make any specific dates or
recommendations at their last meeting so
there is nothing uh nothing definite at
this
point okay if there is something going
to be definite is that something that we
can um share I mean is there someone
that we have to discuss to allow us to
go ahead and do something like have a
table
there would I be talking to that
committee uh I would talk to Jeff
Maguire on that one I don't think it
should be an issue but it's not that
wouldn't necessarily I don't think that
would be my
call all right so Jeff would be the
person okay thank
you other uh comments questions or Lea
arm
reports okay any board open
discussion anything else we need to
bring before the
board Mark I just wanted to say one
thing I I will not be at the next Board
of Finance meeting uh Cheryl said she
will fill in with me I'm going to be on
vacation for a couple weeks at the end
of June I should be available again
around July 1st okay thank you well
since you brought that up I will say the
exactly the same thing I will not 26 me
too no kitty sorry sorry Mar I apologize
the 26 that we're talking about I'd have
to look at the calendar I thought it's
the 19th and I might not be available at
night either that's why I could I had it
in my phone is the 26 but I I had a
doubt that's why I asked it's the third
week it's the third week that should be
the 19th then I've got it in the wrong
place thank
you yeah no so it's on the calendar is
the
26th the reason 18th is that is juneth
that is holiday and you can't hold a
meeting per fo hour on that perfect good
I can go I can go to New Hampshire
riding snowmobiles or uh
quads if you're riding snowmobiles it's
going to be a very interesting weather
experience I'll be in Norway I'll be in
Norway at that time I have a much better
chance of riding snowmobiles than you
will enjoy that that sounds cool nice
yeah
Wonder okay well that's going to be
interesting then so we'll have to
determine whether we have a quorum
hopefully we will 26 we will I will be
there okay yeah good
good okay any other board open
discussion okay I don't have any
correspondence other than the two items
we already took up today one of which
was the uh proposed policy and the other
was the request to uh transfer the
$113,000 into the capital fund um
anybody else have any correspondence
that they should present before the
board I no okay last it next item is
public
speak I don't see anybody from the
community out there the public
okay and the next item is a German I
will say if I thank you for I'm not sure
if you guys are hearing me while I was
at the dentist earlier right before this
uh this meeting uh so my my words are a
little thick I can blame allergies in
the dentist but uh great um it wasn't
too egregious but never the favorite
thing to do right fun okay so the next
item be what's that I moved to a journ
okay Rob moves to
second I see uh Bill rais his hand in
second any
discussion
okay hear me none all those in favor I I
all those
opposed hearing none any
extensions okay the meeting is you Jour
thank you very much like I said I won't
be at the next meeting uh but uh you
know so if you're available you can